# Response to Stevens' Article

1&2	The technique is called "random forest" and is a machine learning algorithm which takes in data from both traditional censusing methods and newer big data collection methods to interpret patterns and output variables in the population. A machine learning algorithm is code which interprets data and assigns it meaning - like YouTube's copyright algorithm which, ideally, should flag and take down videos which directly copy from movies, or other videos on the platform. What distinguishes the new machine learning algorithms from classical statistics is the involvement of humans in interpreting and creating data, and variables. Before, a hypothesis was made, experiments and observational studies were conducted, and a conclusion was met as to whether that hypothesis discovered a new variable. New machine learning algorithms can take effectively infinite amounts of information from cellular and satellite data to establish variables, and "learn" by looking at and assessing the differences between individuals. No hypotheses are made, but lots of observations are made. 

3	In the paper, the authors used geospatial covariates such as Census data, land cover, roadways, water, and facility locations to name a few. The data gathered is massive in detail, through the combined efforts of many people and passively gathered satellite and other data. Using big data and machine learning allows for more accurate inferences to be drawn and acted upon than with classical statistics. Having high resolution population data means that institutions can accurately distribute resources to population centers, with great accuracy. Optimal locations for hospitals, water treatment facilities, power plants, and other significant infrastructure can be found by optimizing based on road networks, distance, and other measures of accessibility. Aid can be distributed to cities fairly and efficiently, allowing us to (bureaucracy aside) save people in a time of crisis (like with the Coronavirus pandemic). This is especially important for LMICs where traditional statistics was too costly to readily help people of those countries establish effective infrastructure. 

4	I am investigating the legitimacy of expanding the Bolivian forestry industry sustainably, so that the additional export funds could be directed towards infrastructure investment. Sustainable forestry would ideally bring economic stability to the country, acting as a foundation for further development.  That being said, population data would be useful in identifying where the rural regions of the country are, which mostly covered in forests ripe for sylviculture.
